data-migration: add two docs - migrate from SQL less than 1TiB and from SQL files (#7261)
pingcap/docs: data-migration/migrate-sql-file-tidb.md

If you use Dumpling to export data, the table schema file is automatically exported. For the data exported in other ways, you  can create the table schema in one of the following methods:

* **Method 1**: create the target table schema using TiDB Lightning.

    1. Write SQL files that contain the required DDL statements.

        - The format of file name is `${db_name}-schema-create.sql`, and this file should have `CREATE DATABASE` statements.
        - The format of file name is `${db_name}.${table_name}-schema.sql`, and this file should have `CREATE TABLE` statements.

    2. During the migration, add the following configuration in `tidb-lightning.toml`:

        ```toml
        [mydumper]
        no-schema = false # To create the target table schema using Lightning, set the value to false
        ```

* **Method 2**: create the target table schema manually.

    During the migration, add the following configuration in `tidb-lightning.toml`:

    ```toml
    [mydumper]
    no-schema = true # If you have already created the target table schema, set the value to true, which means skipping the schema creation.
    ```

> ## Step 3: Create the configuration file

Author: ```suggestion
## Step 3. Create the configuration file
```

sorted-kv-dir = "${sorted-kv-dir}"

[mydumper]
# Directory of the data source
data-source-dir = "${data-path}" # local or S3 path, such as 's3://my-bucket/sql-backup?region=us-west-2'

# If you have manually created the target table schema in #Step 2, set it to true; otherwise, it is false.
# no-schema = true

[tidb]
# The information of target cluster
host = ${host}                # For example, 172.16.32.1
port = ${port}                # For example, 4000
user = "${user_name}"         # For example, "root"
password = "${password}"      # For example, "rootroot"
status-port = ${status-port}  # During the import process, lightning needs to obtain table schema information from the "Status Port" of TiDB, such as 10080
pd-addr = "${ip}:${port}"     # The address of the cluster PD. Lightning obtains some information through PD, such as 172.16.31.3:2379. When backend = "local", you must specify status-port and pd-addr. Otherwise, the import will be abnormal.
```

For more information on the configuration file, refer to [TiDB Lightning Configuration](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

> ## Step 4: Import the data

Author: ```suggestion
## Step 4. Import the data
```

To start the import, run `tidb-lightning`. If you launch the program in the command line, the program might exit because of the `SIGHUP` signal. In this case, it is recommended to run the program with a `nohup` or `screen` tool.

> If you import the data from S3, you need to pass `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` of the account with the permission to access the S3 backend storage to the Dumpling node as environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you import the data from S3, you need to pass in `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` of the account as environment variables. The account has the permission to access the S3 backend storage.
```

If you import the data from S3, you need to pass `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` of the account with the permission to access the S3 backend storage to the Dumpling node as environment variables.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${access_key}
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${secret_key}

> nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -no-schema=true > nohup.out 2>&1 &

Author: ```suggestion
nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -no-schema=true > nohup.out 2>&1 &
```
```

> export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${access_key}
> export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${secret_key}
> nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -no-schema=true > nohup.out 2>&1 &

Author: ```suggestion
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${access_key}
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${secret_key}
nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -no-schema=true > nohup.out 2>&1 &
```

```

> Dumpling also supports reading credential files from ~/.aws/credentials. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dumpling also supports reading credential files from `~/.aws/credentials`. 
```

> When starting the import, you can check the progress in one of the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the import is started, you can check the progress in one of the following ways:
```

> - Use the `progress` of the `grep` log keyword, which is updated every 5 minutes by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Search the `progress` keyword in the `grep` log, which is updated every 5 minutes by default.
```

- Use the Grafana dashboard. For details, see [TiDB Lightning Monitoring](/tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning.md).

> - Use web interface. For details, see [TiDB Lightning Web Interface](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-web-interface.md)。

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use web interface. For details, see [TiDB Lightning Web Interface](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-web-interface.md).
```

> After the import is complete, TiDB Lightning automatically exits. If the line `the whole procedure completed` is in the last 5 lines of the log, it means that the import is successfully completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the import is completed, TiDB Lightning automatically exits. If `the whole procedure completed` is in the last 5 lines of the log, it means that the import is successfully completed.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > Whether the import is successful or not, the last line displays `tidb lightning exit`. It only means that TiDB Lightning exited normally, not the completion of the task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> No matter whether the import is successful or not, the last line displays `tidb lightning exit`. It only means that TiDB Lightning has exited normally, not the completion of the task.
```

---
title: Migrate Data from SQL Files to TiDB
summary: Learn how to migrate data from SQL files to TiDB.
---

# Migrate Data from SQL Files to TiDB

This document describes how to migrate data from MySQL SQL files to TiDB using TiDB Lightning. For how to generate MySQL SQL files, refer to [Export to SQL files using Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md#export-to-sql-files).

## Prerequisites

- [Install TiDB Lightning using TiUP](/migration-tools.md)

> - [Grant the required privileges to the target database for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md#what-are-the-privilege-requirements-for-the-target-database)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Grant the required privileges to the target database for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md#what-are-the-privilege-requirements-for-the-target-database.md)
```

> - [Grant the required privileges to the target database for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md#what-are-the-privilege-requirements-for-the-target-database.md)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Grant the required privileges to the target database for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md#what-are-the-privilege-requirements-for-the-target-database)
```

* **Method 1**: create the target table schema using TiDB Lightning.

    1. Write SQL files that contain the required DDL statements.

        - The format of the file name is `${db_name}-schema-create.sql`, and this file should have the `CREATE DATABASE` statements.
        - The format of the file name is `${db_name}.${table_name}-schema.sql`, and this file should have the `CREATE TABLE` statements.

    2. During the migration, add the following configuration in `tidb-lightning.toml`:

        ```toml
        [mydumper]
        no-schema = false # To create the table schema in the target database using TiDB Lightning, set the value to false
        ```

* **Method 2**: create the target table schema manually.

    Before the migration, add the following configuration in `tidb-lightning.toml`:

    ```toml
    [mydumper]
    no-schema = true # If you have already created the target table schema, set the value to true, which means skipping the schema creation.
    ```

## Step 3. Create the configuration file

Create a `tidb-lightning.toml` file with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
[lightning]
# Log
level = "info"
file = "tidb-lightning.log"

[tikv-importer]

> # "local"：Default. The local backend is used to import large volumes of data (1 TB or above). During the import, the target TiDB cluster cannot provide any service.
> # "tidb"：The "tidb" backend can also be used to import small volumes of data (below 1 TB). During the import, the target TiDB cluster can provide service normally. For the information about backend mode, refer to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-backends.

Author: ```suggestion
# "local"：Default. The local backend is used to import large volumes of data (1 TiB or above). During the import, the target TiDB cluster cannot provide any service.
# "tidb"：The "tidb" backend can also be used to import small volumes of data (below 1 TiB). During the import, the target TiDB cluster can provide service normally. For the information about backend mode, refer to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-backends.
```

> # "tidb"：The "tidb" backend can also be used to import small volumes of data (less than 1 TiB). During the import, the target TiDB cluster can provide service normally. For the information about backend mode, refer to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-backends.

Reviewer 2: missing backend config here

> # "tidb"：The "tidb" backend can also be used to import small volumes of data (less than 1 TiB). During the import, the target TiDB cluster can provide service normally. For the information about backend mode, refer to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-backends.

Author: ```suggestion
# "tidb"：The "tidb" backend can also be used to import small volumes of data (less than 1 TiB). During the import, the target TiDB cluster can provide service normally. For the information about backend mode, refer to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-backends.
backend = "local"
```

```

For more information about the configuration file, refer to [TiDB Lightning Configuration](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

## Step 4. Import the data

To start the import, run `tidb-lightning`. If you launch the program in the command line, the program might exit because of the `SIGHUP` signal. In this case, it is recommended to run the program with a `nohup` or `screen` tool.

If you import the data from S3, you need to pass in `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` of the account as environment variables. The account has the permission to access the S3 backend storage.

If you import the data from S3, you need to pass `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` of the account with the permission to access the S3 backend storage to the Dumpling node as environment variables.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${access_key}
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${secret_key}
nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -no-schema=true > nohup.out 2>&1 &
```

> Dumpling also supports reading credential files from `~/.aws/credentials`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB Lightning also supports reading credential files from `~/.aws/credentials`. 
```

---
title: Migrate Data from SQL Files to TiDB
summary: Learn how to migrate data from SQL Files to TiDB.
---

# Migrate Data from SQL Files to TiDB

This document describes how to migrate data from MySQL SQL files to TiDB using TiDB Lightning. For how to generate MySQL SQL files, refer to [Export to SQL Files](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#export-to-sql-files).

## Prerequisites

- [Install TiDB Lightning using TiUP](/migration-tools.md)

> - [Get the target database privileges required for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md#what-are-the-privilege-requirements-for-the-target-database)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Grant the target database privileges required for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md#what-are-the-privilege-requirements-for-the-target-database)
```

## Step 1. Prepare SQL files

> Put all the SQL files in the same directory, like `/data/my_datasource/`. TiDB Lighting recursively searches for all `.sql` files in this directory and its subdirectories.

Author: ```suggestion
Put all the SQL files in the same directory, like `/data/my_datasource/` or `s3://my-bucket/sql-backup?region=us-west-2`. TiDB Lighting recursively searches for all `.sql` files in this directory and its subdirectories.
```

## Step 2. Define the target table schema

> Because CSV files do not contain schema information, before importing data into TiDB, you need to create the target table schema. You can create the target table schema by either of the following two methods:

Author: ```suggestion
Because SQL files do not contain schema information, before importing data into TiDB, you need to create the target table schema. You can create the target table schema by either of the following two methods:
```

> Because SQL files do not contain schema information, before importing data into TiDB, you need to create the target table schema. You can create the target table schema by either of the following two methods:

Author: ```suggestion
To import data into TiDB, you need to create the target table schema. You can create the target table schema by either of the following two methods:
```

* **Method 1**: create the target table schema using TiDB Lightning.

    1. Write SQL files that contain the required DDL statements.

        - The format of file name is `${db_name}-schema-create.sql`, and this file should have `CREATE DATABASE` statements.
        - The format of file name is `${db_name}.${table_name}-schema.sql`, and this file should have `CREATE TABLE` statements.

>     2. During the migration, add the following configuration in `tidb-lightning.toml`:

Reviewer 2: I suggest remove this sub step. For tidb-lightning < v5.2.0, no-schema = false is the default value, so user needn't explicitly set it. For >= v5.2, this config is deprecated and needn't set anymore.

        ```toml
        [mydumper]
        no-schema = false # To create the target table schema using Lightning, set the value to false
        ```

* **Method 2**: create the target table schema manually.

>     During the migration, add the following configuration in `tidb-lightning.toml`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Add the following configuration in `tidb-lightning.toml`:
```

>     During the migration, add the following configuration in `tidb-lightning.toml`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Before the migration, add the following configuration in `tidb-lightning.toml`:
```

    ```toml
    [mydumper]
    no-schema = true # If you have already created the target table schema, set the value to true, which means skipping the schema creation.
    ```

## Step 3: Create the configuration file

Create a `tidb-lightning.toml` file with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
[lightning]
# Log
level = "info"
file = "tidb-lightning.log"

[tikv-importer]

> # "local"：Default. The local backend is used to import large volumes of data (1 TiB or above). During the import, the target TiDB cluster cannot provide any service.
> # "tidb"：The "tidb" backend can also be used to import small volumes of data (below 1 TiB). During the import, the target TiDB cluster can provide service normally. For the information about backend mode, refer to [TiDB Lightning Backends](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-backends)
> backend = "local"

Author: ```suggestion
# "local"：Default. The local backend is used to import large volumes of data (1 TB or above). During the import, the target TiDB cluster cannot provide any service.
# "tidb"：The "tidb" backend can also be used to import small volumes of data (below 1 TB). During the import, the target TiDB cluster can provide service normally. For the information about backend mode, refer to [TiDB Lightning Backends](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-backends)
```

# Set the temporary storage directory for the sorted Key value files. The directory must be empty, and the storage space must be enough to hold the largest single table from the data source. For better import performance, it is recommended to use a directory different from `data-source-dir` and use flash storage and exclusive I/O for the directory.
sorted-kv-dir = "${sorted-kv-dir}"

[mydumper]

> # Directory of the data source, supports local path (like `/data/my_datasource/`) or S3 path (like `s3://bucket-name/data-path`).
> data-source-dir = "${my_datasource}"

Author: ```suggestion
# Directory of the data source
data-source-dir = "${data-path}" # local or S3 path, such as 's3://my-bucket/sql-backup?region=us-west-2'
```

> # Do not create a table schema. If you have manually created the target table schema in #Step 2, set it to true; otherwise, it is false.
> no-schema = true

Author: ```suggestion
# If you have manually created the target table schema in #Step 2, set it to true; otherwise, it is false.
# no-schema = true
```

> # The information of target cluster.
> host = "${ip}"
> port = 4000
> user = "${user_name}"
> password = "${password}"
> # The table schema is obtained from the TiDB "status port".
> status-port = ${port}       # For example, 10080
> # Address of the PD cluster
> pd-addr = "${ip}:${port}"   # For example: 172.16.31.3:2379. When backend = "local", you must specify status-port and pd-addr. Otherwise, the import will be abnormal.

Author: ```suggestion
[tidb]
# The information of target cluster
host = ${host}                # For example, 172.16.32.1
port = ${port}                # For example, 4000
user = "${user_name}"         # For example, "root"
password = "${password}"      # For example, "rootroot"
status-port = ${status-port}  # During the import process, lightning needs to obtain table schema information from the "Status Port" of TiDB, such as 10080
pd-addr = "${ip}:${port}"     # The address of the cluster PD. Lightning obtains some information through PD, such as 172.16.31.3:2379. When backend = "local", you must specify status-port and pd-addr. Otherwise, the import will be abnormal.
```

```

For more information on the configuration file, refer to [TiDB Lightning Configuration](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

## Step 4: Import the data

> To start the import, run `tidb-lightning`. If you launch the program in the command line, the program might exit because of the `SIGHUP` signal. In this case, it is recommended to run the program with a `nohup` or `screen` tool. For example:

Author: ```suggestion
If you import the data from S3, you need to pass `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` of the account with the permission to access the S3 backend storage to the Dumpling node as environment variables.
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell

> nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out &

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out 2>&1 &
```

> To start the import, run `tidb-lightning`. If you launch the program in the command line, the program might exit because of the `SIGHUP` signal. In this case, it is recommended to run the program with a `nohup` or `screen` tool. For example:
> 
> {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}
> 
> ```shell
> nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out &
> ```

Author: ```suggestion
If you import the data from S3, you need to pass `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` of the account with the permission to access the S3 backend storage to the Dumpling node as environment variables.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${access_key}
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${secret_key}
nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -no-schema=true > nohup.out 2>&1 &
```

Dumpling also supports reading credential files from ~/.aws/credentials. 

When starting the import, you can check the progress in one of the following ways:

- Use the `progress` of the `grep` log keyword, which is updated every 5 minutes by default.
- Use the Grafana dashboard. For details, see [TiDB Lightning Monitoring](/tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning.md).
- Use web interface. For details, see [TiDB Lightning Web Interface](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-web-interface.md)。

After the import is complete, TiDB Lightning automatically exits. If the line `the whole procedure completed` is in the last 5 lines of the log, it means that the import is successfully completed.

> **Note:**
>
> Whether the import is successful or not, the last line displays `tidb lightning exit`. It only means that TiDB Lightning exited normally, not the completion of the task.
```

> {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}
> 
> ```shell
> nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out &
> ```

Author: ```suggestion
If you import the data from S3, you need to pass `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` of the account with the permission to access the S3 backend storage to the Dumpling node as environment variables.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${access_key}
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${secret_key}
nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -no-schema=true > nohup.out 2>&1 &
```
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Dumpling also supports reading credential files from ~/.aws/credentials. 

When starting the import, you can check the progress in one of the following ways:

- Use the `progress` of the `grep` log keyword, which is updated every 5 minutes by default.
- Use the Grafana dashboard. For details, see [TiDB Lightning Monitoring](/tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning.md).
- Use web interface. For details, see [TiDB Lightning Web Interface](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-web-interface.md)。

After the import is complete, TiDB Lightning automatically exits. If the line `the whole procedure completed` is in the last 5 lines of the log, it means that the import is successfully completed.

> **Note:**
>
> Whether the import is successful or not, the last line displays `tidb lightning exit`. It only means that TiDB Lightning exited normally, not the completion of the task.
```

> If the import fails, refer to [TiDB Lightning FAQ](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md) for troubleshooting.

Author: ```suggestion
If you encounter problems during the import process, refer to [TiDB Lightning FAQ](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md) for troubleshooting.
```
